Okay! What we want to do here is look at
creating an XSD, so XML schema. So, we
have our XML, that's been generated from
our POJOs, that we've generated before in
the class. Take a look at the actual
XML. It's not that great of a structure.
So, we have CustomerListDTO. Then,
we have an element called customers.
Then, we have another element called
customers firstname, lastname, and then
customer underscore URL. So, these are all
things that I want to clean up. This
not very well structured. It's a little
sloppy. It just came from the POJOs that
we had. And really, what's happening here
is Jackson is looking at our data
structure and really doing that best guess
that it has. We haven't given it any
mapping hints or anything like that. So,
what I'm going to show you here is we are
going to create a XML schema. This is a
little bit old school because XML seems
to have fallen out of favor, so to speak,
in modern Java development, but it's
still a very good tool to use. It is
rock-solid and mature. It's actually so
mature it's rather boring. But it is
still a very good technology that we can
leverage, and I want to show you this
because this is going to be a convenient
way, when we're designing our APIs. One
of the things I like to do is work from
an XSD. So, XSD is XML schema that
is going to describe our data. It's a
tool that makes it kind of neutral. So,
the JSON community is pursuing JSON
schema. But that is still in the beta
stages at the time of recording this.
They haven't come out with an official
release. That's still going through
iterations. Now, XSD has been approved
and the community has approved them for a
long time ago. So, like I
said, this area technology so mature is
boring, but it's still a very good
technology that we can look at. What
I want to do here is take the first step
and show you how to work with XSD. So
ultimately, what we're going to do is
take an XSD and we're going to tell JAXB
to generate our Java classes from that
XSD, and then, we'll include those
generated Java classes as our data types
that will be
during back. Now, the generated classes
are going to come right from the XSD. So,
once we get our XSD, we're going to
have a lot more control over how this is
rendering. So, I want to clean this up. So,
like customers, I'd rather say customer
list, and then, have that. You can see
there on line 3, where we have the
inner customers. I'd rather have that
just as customer. Now, to make a lot more
sense as a customer object. Then, on
line 6, like customer_url.
Let's be consistent and use camel case in
there. So, I think we can clean this up a
little bit nicer. So, let's go ahead and
do that. I am going to cheat. I'm
going to copy this over. There's a
utility on the web called freeformater.com
So, I'm going to paste that in. So, we
can see that all I've done here is paste
of that in. I'm going to say generate
XSD, and we see, this is XSD, that
it generated. I'm not teaching XML
schema in this. So, this is okay. You can
see here, we have Russian Doll, Salami
Slice and Venetian Blind. These are their
names for it, which is kind of
interesting. I did not come up with these
in names, but you do have different
options here. So, I'm going to go through
and take each one. You can see here, now,
we have a little more structure to it.
Close but not quite what I want.
But in this Venetian Blind, I think
this gives us a lot better structure. So
now, we have some pretty nicely
structured XML schema here. So, I think
this gives us a real nice setup here. So
we have Customer DTO type and customers
type. So, this gives us an element of a
type of CustomerListDTOType. So, we get
the type here. So we have type
declarations for all this. So, this is
exactly what we want to be working with
for JAXB. We might have to adjust
as some going forward. But, I am going to
copy this. Let's come over to our project
structure now, and you can see here in
Spring MVC REST,
I've created a new folder called
rest-model source main resources xsd.
I'm going to create a new file
and yes we will add that to get. I'm going to past that in. So
now, we have our XML schema available in
GitHub. Now, what I'm doing here is I'm
taking the first step of refactoring
this. So, we're not doing anything here.
But this is going to become a Maven
module. Coming up, in the next few
lessons, what we are going to do is
refactor this to a Multi Module Maven
build. Now, I'm not teaching Maven
specifically, but I know I'm going to have a
lot of skill levels going through this
course, but I'm going to take you through
refactoring this project to a Multi
Module Maven Build, and what we want to
do is effectively take our current
source for a Spring Boot project. We're
going to move that into a module. We'll
have a parent POM over the two of those,
and then, that Spring Boot project is
going to depend upon the rest-model
Project. We are going to set up the
rest-model Project and tell Maven to use
JAXB to generate Java classes. So,
this will generate. We can use JAXB
to generate Java classes from that,
include those Java classes into a jar
and have that jar brought in into our
soon to be created other module for the
project that we have been working with.
So, this is going to be an opportunity to
get to see how JAXB can be used and be
to see a Multi Module Maven project. I'm
telling you from experience, we're
working with pretty simple things here.
But in the enterprise, it's not. Multi
module projects are probably more of the
norm than they are of the exception. So,
as your projects get bigger and more
complex, it does make sense to break them
out into multiple modules, because you
might have data types, or real common
cases, your JPA entities to break those
out into its own module so they can
be shared amongst modules. So, I'm going
to save this, and then, in upcoming videos,
we are going to be looking at breaking
this down into a multi module project
and implementing JAXB to generate
those entities.